
      -----------------------------------------------------------      
                             The Wine FAQ                              
                                                                       
      Frequently asked questions about Wine.                           
      -----------------------------------------------------------      
                                                                       
      Questions                                                        
                                                                       
      Click on the question to see its answer.                         
                                                                       
          About Wine                                                   
                                                                       
                                                                       
       1. What is Wine?                                                
       2. What's UNIX? What's Linux? What's FreeBSD? What's GNU?       
       3. Is Wine an emulator?                                         
       4. What's the history of Wine?                                  
       5. Why would anyone want Wine? Doesn't Windows suck?            
       6. What is Wine, and what is it supposed to do?                 
       7. What is the current version of Wine?                         
       8. When will Wine be finished?                                  
       9. What undocumented APIs / interfaces are not understood?      
          Would seeing Microsoft source help?                          
                                                                       
          Getting Wine                                                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
      10. Do I need Unix first? Where can I get Linux?                 
      11. Can I get Wine on CD?                                        
                                                                       
          Common troubles with configuring Wine                        
                                                                       
                                                                       
      12. This RPM requires libncurses.so.5, but the latest            
          ncurses I can find is libncurses.so.4?                       
      13. Why does it keep saying that Xpm is not installed?           
      14. What is this kernel/kernel32 mismatch warning?               
      15. I'm getting a X_OpenFont crash when starting Wine!           
      16. All my Wine windows stick on top and/or on all my            
          desktops!                                                    
      17. Wine looks like Windows 3.1, but I run Windows 95            
          applications?                                                
      18. I compiled Wine from source, but it can't find the .so       
          files, like libavifil32.so!                                  
      19. Wine won't start on my new glibc2.1.3-based                  
          distribution (RedHat 6.2, Mandrake 7.0, etc)!                
                                                                       
          Common troubles with running programs with Wine              
                                                                       
                                                                       
      20. I'm getting a relocation records stripped message,           
          what's this?                                                 
      21. I can't start programs in paths with spaces in them!         
      22. I tried to run a setup application, but it complains         
          that it can't create start menu entries, what can I do?      
      23. My application wants me to change disks/CD-ROMs, but I       
          can't unmount it while it is running, what can I do?         
                                                                       
          Getting Help                                                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
      24. Is there any documentation for Wine?                         
      25. I couldn't find the answer to my question in the             
          documentation, but I've written a document explaining        
          how to solve it. What should I do?                           
                                                                       
          Developing programs using Wine                               
                                                                       
                                                                       
      26. Can I use Wine to port my Win32 sources to Unix?             
      27. Will MFC work with Wine? What do I need to do?               
      28. Are there any commercial applications which have been        
          ported using Wine?                                           
      29. How can I detect Wine?                                       
                                                                       
          Becoming a Wine developer                                    
                                                                       
                                                                       
      30. How do I become a Wine developer? What do I need to          
          know?                                                        
                                                                       
          About this FAQ                                               
                                                                       
                                                                       
      31. How recent is this FAQ? Where can I get the latest           
          version?                                                     
      32. Who maintains this FAQ? What's its history? How do I         
          submit additions?                                            
      33. What's the copyright on this FAQ? How may I use it?          
                                                                       
          Capabilities                                                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
      34. Which programs does Wine currently run?                      
      35. Are there programs which Wine will never be able to          
          run?                                                         
      36. Can I use Wine to access my Winmodem?                        
      37. Will MS Windows programs typically run faster or slower      
          under UNIX and Wine than they do under DOS and MS            
          Windows? Will certain kinds of programs run slower or        
          faster?                                                      
      38. Are there any advantages or disadvantages to running MS      
          Windows applications under Wine that I should be aware       
          of?                                                          
      39. Will Wine support MS Windows networked applications          
          that use winsock.dll?                                        
      40. I'm a software developer who wants to use UNIX to            
          develop programs rather than DOS, but I need to write        
          DOS and MS Windows programs as well. Will I be able to       
          run my favorite DOS and/or MS Windows compilers under        
          Wine?                                                        
                                                                       
          What You Need to Run Wine                                    
                                                                       
                                                                       
      41. Under what hardware platform(s) and operating system(s)      
          will Wine run?                                               
      42. What minimum CPU must I have in my computer to be able       
          to run Wine and MS Windows applications smoothly?            
      43. How much disk space will the Wine source code and            
          binaries take on my hard drive? What other software do       
          I need to have installed to compile and run Wine?            
      44. How much RAM do I need to have on my UNIX system to be       
          able to run Wine and MS Windows applications smoothly?       
      45. I have a Drivespaced, Doublespaced or Stackered DOS          
          partition. Can Wine run MS Windows binaries located in       
          such a partition?                                            
      46. Do I need to have a DOS partition on my system to use        
          Wine? Does MS Windows need to be loaded into that            
          partition in order to run MS Windows programs under          
          Wine?                                                        
      47. If Wine completely replaces MS Windows, will it              
          duplicate all of the functions of MS Windows?                
      48. Will I be able to install MS Windows applications in         
          any flavor of a UNIX filesystem?                             
      49. Will Wine run only under X, or can it run in character       
          mode?                                                        
      50. Will Wine run under any X window manager? Does it            
          require a window manager at all?                             
      51. Will 32-bit Windows 95/98 applications run under Wine?       
      52. What about NT specific programs, which use NT-only           
          features?                                                    
                                                                       
          How to Find, Install, Configure and Run Wine                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
      53. Where can I get Wine?                                        
      54. If I do not have an Internet account, how can I get          
          Wine?                                                        
      55. How do I install Wine on my hard drive?                      
      56. How do I compile the Wine distribution source code?          
      57. How do I configure Wine to run on my system?                 
      58. How do I run an MS Windows program under Wine?               
      59. I have installed and configured Wine, but Wine cannot        
          find MS Windows on my drive. Where did I go wrong?           
      60. I'm running a DirectX game, but the graphics is slow,        
          how can I speed it up?                                       
      61. I think I've found a bug. How do I report this bug to        
          the Wine programming team?                                   
      62. I was able to get various MS Windows programs to run,        
          but parts of them do not work. What is wrong?                
      63. I have run various MS Windows programs, but since the        
          program menus do not work, how can I exit these              
          programs?                                                    
      64. How do I remove Wine from my computer?                       
                                                                       
          How to Get Help with Wine                                    
                                                                       
                                                                       
      65. Is there a Usenet newsgroup for Wine?                        
      66. Is there a World Wide Web site for Wine?                     
                                                                       
          How You Can Help with the Wine Project                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      67. How can I help contribute to the Wine project, and in        
          what way(s)?                                                 
      68. I want to help beta test Wine. How can I do this?            
      69. I have written some code that I would like to submit to      
          the Wine project. How do I go about doing this?              
                                                                       
          Who's Responsible for Wine?                                  
                                                                       
                                                                       
      70. Who is responsible for writing and maintaining the Wine      
          source code?                                                 
      71. Who are the folks and organizations who have                 
          contributed money or equipment to the Wine project?          
                                                                       
      Questions and Answers                                            
                                                                       
      About Wine                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
       1. What is Wine?                                                
                                                                       
          Wine is Windows on UNIX.                                     
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
       2. What's UNIX? What's Linux? What's FreeBSD? What's GNU?       
                                                                       
          UNIX refers to a number of OSes based on the OS started      
          at Bell Labs in the 70's. GNU is a longstanding project      
          to create a free Unix. Linux and FreeBSD are free            
          Unixes, building on the GNU project. Some distributors,      
          such as Debian, refer to the result as GNU/Linux in          
          recognition of the GNU heritage.                             
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
       3. Is Wine an emulator?                                         
                                                                       
          Unfortunately, no. Wine provides low-level binary            
          compatibility, but currently only for OSes running on        
          Intel-compatible chips.                                      
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
       4. What's the history of Wine?                                  
                                                                       
          As far as I remember it was a discussion in                  
          comp.os.linux about Windows emulation. The first real        
          code came from Eric Youngdale (at this point he was          
          toying around with object formats, i.e. he was writing       
          the ELF infrastructure for Linux and applied this            
          knowledge to write a simple loader for Windows               
          binaries). Then Bob Amstadt got the actual project           
          running (with TK widgets). -- Joerg                          
                                                                       
          Also see http://www.winehq.com/about.html.                   
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
       5. Why would anyone want Wine? Doesn't Windows suck?            
                                                                       
          Not everyone thinks so. And for those that don't,            
          Windows programs would suck less when run on a more          
          stable and flexible UNIX platform.                           
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
       6. What is Wine, and what is it supposed to do?                 
                                                                       
          Wine is a program which allows the operation of DOS and      
          MS Windows programs (Windows 3.x and Win32 executables)      
          on UNIX. It consists of a program loader, which loads        
          and executes a Windows binary, and a library that            
          implements Windows API calls using their UNIX or X11         
          equivalents. The library may also be used for porting        
          Win32 code into native UNIX executables.                     
                                                                       
          Wine is free software, and its license (contained in         
          the file LICENSE in each distribution) is BSD style.         
          Basically, this means that you can do anything with          
          Wine except claim that you wrote it.                         
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
       7. What is the current version of Wine?                         
                                                                       
          A new version of Wine is distributed about every three       
          weeks. You will be able to keep up on all the latest         
          releases by reading the newsgroup                            
                                                                       
          comp.emulators.ms-windows.wine                               
                                                                       
          where new release announcements are made. You can also       
          subscribe to the wine-announce mailing list to be            
          notified of new releases via email.                          
                                                                       
          When downloading Wine from your FTP site of choice (see      
          http://www.winehq.com/download.html for some of these        
          choices), you can make sure that you are getting the         
          latest version by watching the version numbers in the        
          distribution filename.                                       
                                                                       
          For instance, the distribution released on June 20,          
          1994 was called Wine-940620.tar.gz.                          
                                                                       
          Patch files are also available. If you are current to        
          the previous version, you can download and apply just        
          the current patch file rather than the entire new            
          distribution. The patch filenames follow the same            
          conventions as the monthly distribution.                     
                                                                       
          Read-only CVS access is also available. See http://          
          www.winehq.com/dev.html                                      
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
       8. When will Wine be finished?                                  
                                                                       
          Large software projects are never finished, only             
          released.                                                    
                                                                       
          Because Wine is being developed by volunteers, it is         
          difficult to predict when it will be ready for general       
          release. Between 90-98% of the functions used by MS          
          Windows applets, and 80-90% of the functions used by         
          major programs, have been at least partially                 
          implemented at this time. However, the remaining 10%         
          will likely take another 90% of the time, not including      
          debugging.                                                   
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
       9. What undocumented APIs / interfaces are not understood?      
          Would seeing Microsoft source help?                          
                                                                       
          The best would be if the Windows API would be fully          
          documented, so Wine could be a perfect "clean-room"          
          implementation. Seeing the source code might make it         
          harder to prove that no copyright violations have taken      
          place. That said, the documentation is often bad,            
          nonexistent, and even misleading where it exists, so a       
          fair amount of reverse engineering have been necessary,      
          particularly in the shell (Explorer) interface.              
                                                                       
          Getting Wine                                                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      10. Do I need Unix first? Where can I get Linux?                 
                                                                       
          The short answer is yes: Wine is not an OS, it runs on       
          top of your OS. A project named Generic Windows, a           
          prepacked setup of FreeBSD+XFree86+Wine, has been            
          proposed, but its domain name, genericwindows.com,           
          seems to have disappeared from the Web.                      
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      11. Can I get Wine on CD?                                        
                                                                       
          You can get the source on any CD which mirrors a Wine        
          site, such as the Metalab CD's marketed by Walnut Creek      
          CDROM. Be warned that these might be slightly out of         
          date by the time you get them.                               
                                                                       
          Common troubles with configuring Wine                        
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      12. This RPM requires libncurses.so.5, but the latest            
          ncurses I can find is libncurses.so.4?                       
                                                                       
          RedHat has pulled a bad versioning trick; ncurses 5 is       
          still installed as libncurses.so.4 in order to avoid         
          having to recompile the rest of the distribution. If         
          you must use a RPM rather than compile from source,          
          make a symlink, like                                         
          cd /usr/lib                                                  
          ln -s libncurses.so.4 libncurses.so.5                        
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      13. Why does it keep saying that Xpm is not installed?           
                                                                       
          You need the Xpm development headers. On RedHat and          
          SuSE, this is the xpm-devel package. On Debian, this is      
          the xpm4g-dev package. Remember to rm config.cache (or       
          make distclean) before trying again.                         
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      14. What is this kernel/kernel32 mismatch warning?               
                                                                       
          An error in the configuration file, which unfortunately      
          many RPM creators have overlooked. If you run win32          
          applications and have win95/winNT installed with this        
          error, Wine will crash on startup. The wine.conf should      
          contain something like this (but you may ignore the          
          DllPairs section if it doesn't exist, as it was              
          obsoleted a while ago):                                      
          [DllPairs]                                                   
          krnl386 = kernel32                                           
          [DllOverrides]                                               
          kernel32, gdi32, user32 = builtin                            
          krnl386, gdi, user      = builtin                            
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      15. I'm getting a X_OpenFont crash when starting Wine!           
                                                                       
          Make sure you have run mkfontdir in all your X font          
          directories to make sure X has a current list of             
          available fonts. Also, some Windows fonts do not work        
          properly in X. When Wine starts, it queries the X            
          server for the metrics of every font on the system, and      
          for some fonts this may fail. Run wine -debugmsg +font       
          -sync to see what fonts it was querying the X server         
          about, then remove the offending font.                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      16. All my Wine windows stick on top and/or on all my            
          desktops!                                                    
                                                                       
          Have you tried the -managed or -desktop command line         
          options? See the man page for details.                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      17. Wine looks like Windows 3.1, but I run Windows 95            
          applications?                                                
                                                                       
          The visual look and the API are completely different         
          and independent things, think of the look as a theme,        
          it does not change what the applications think they are      
          running on. That said, to change the look, set the           
          WineLook option under [Tweak.Layout] in your wine.conf.      
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      18. I compiled Wine from source, but it can't find the .so       
          files, like libavifil32.so!                                  
                                                                       
          When compiling from source, the libraries go into /usr/      
          local/lib by default. Most Linux distributions aren't        
          set up to look there by default, you have to add /usr/       
          local/lib to /etc/ld.so.conf (and then rerun ldconfig)       
          yourself (or let tools/wineinstall do it for you).           
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      19. Wine won't start on my new glibc2.1.3-based                  
          distribution (RedHat 6.2, Mandrake 7.0, etc)!                
                                                                       
          There are severe bugs in stock glibc2.1.3. For towupper      
          crashes, or errors about MENU_CopySysPopup and USER,         
          you can work around the problem by defining the              
          environment variable LC_ALL, i.e. export LC_ALL=en (in       
          bash) or setenv LC_ALL en (in tcsh).                         
                                                                       
          Common troubles with running programs with Wine              
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      20. I'm getting a relocation records stripped message,           
          what's this?                                                 
                                                                       
          It means that a Win32 application tried to start             
          another executable, but this new executable wanted           
          itself loaded at an address typically already occupied       
          by the old executable, and did not have the relocation       
          records necessary for it to be loaded anywhere else          
          (recent versions of MSVC++ removes (strips) this             
          information by default). Sometimes you can get the           
          application up anyway by just manually starting the          
          other executable it was trying to run (this applies to       
          Lotus Notes, for example).                                   
                                                                       
          The root of this problem is that Win32 keeps separate        
          address spaces for each Win32 process, so that two           
          executables will never clash under Windows. However,         
          there is a lot of work left before Wine can do the           
          same, mostly having to do with how these applications        
          are going to communicate with each other once they are       
          separated.                                                   
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      21. I can't start programs in paths with spaces in them!         
                                                                       
          Did you do something like wine /c/Program Files/foo/         
          bar.exe? The shell sees unescaped spaces as argument         
          separators, for obvious reasons. To tell it that it's        
          all one argument, you must quote it. Examples:               
          wine /c/Program\ Files/foo/bar.exe                           
          wine "/c/Program Files/foo/bar.exe"                          
                                                                       
          But the best and simplest idea is always to cd into the      
          program's directory first and then just run wine             
          bar.exe. Many applications depend on the current             
          directory being the program directory, and they might        
          not work otherwise.                                          
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      22. I tried to run a setup application, but it complains         
          that it can't create start menu entries, what can I do?      
                                                                       
          If you're running without a real Windows installation,       
          first you need to install the necessary registry             
          entries, if you haven't already done so. See                 
          documentation/no-windows for more information. Next,         
          you need to create directories for the paths in the          
          registry. If your Drive C path is /c, you would type         
          something like                                               
          mkdir "/c/windows/Start Menu"                                
          mkdir "/c/windows/Start Menu/Programs"                       
                                                                       
          to prepare the start menus, and after this the install       
          should succeed. (The newest version of tools/                
          wineinstall should do all this for you.)                     
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      23. My application wants me to change disks/CD-ROMs, but I       
          can't unmount it while it is running, what can I do?         
                                                                       
          Use the Supermount kernel patch, and mount your              
          removable media using the Supermount filesystem (read        
          its README file). Supermount implements DOS/                 
          Windows-like behaviour (it allows you to change media        
          (as long as no files are open) without unmounting).          
                                                                       
          (Mandrake kernels are known to include this patch by         
          default.)                                                    
                                                                       
          Getting Help                                                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      24. Is there any documentation for Wine?                         
                                                                       
          Yes, a bit. Look in the documentation/ directory of the      
          source distribution. Also see the WineHQ website and         
          the draft version of the Wine-HOWTO.                         
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      25. I couldn't find the answer to my question in the             
          documentation, but I've written a document explaining        
          how to solve it. What should I do?                           
                                                                       
          Updates and additions to the Wine documentation              
          directory should be sent to the wine-patches mailing         
          list. Website and FAQ additions should be sent to            
          webmaster@winehq.com.                                        
                                                                       
          Developing programs using Wine                               
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      26. Can I use Wine to port my Win32 sources to Unix?             
                                                                       
          That is the idea of Winelib. Right now you may have          
          some difficulties, but this should change soon.              
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      27. Will MFC work with Wine? What do I need to do?               
                                                                       
          Work is underway to support this.                            
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      28. Are there any commercial applications which have been        
          ported using Wine?                                           
                                                                       
          At this time, Corel's WordPerfect Office Suite and           
          Deneba's Canvas 7 are known to use Winelib.                  
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      29. How can I detect Wine?                                       
                                                                       
          You shouldn't need to. If there's a quirk in Wine you        
          need to work around, it's better to fix it in Wine.          
                                                                       
          Becoming a Wine developer                                    
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      30. How do I become a Wine developer? What do I need to          
          know?                                                        
                                                                       
          If you can program C, that's a good start. Download the      
          sources via CVS, subscribe to the mailing lists, look        
          around the source, and pay attention to the                  
          comp.emulators.ms-windows.wine newsgroup and the             
          mailing lists. See if there's anything that you think        
          you can fix or work on. You won't have much trouble          
          finding areas that need work in Wine (grep for FIXMEs        
          in the source).                                              
                                                                       
          About this FAQ                                               
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      31. How recent is this FAQ? Where can I get the latest           
          version?                                                     
                                                                       
          This document was last edited Tue Mar 06 01:33:11 EST        
          2001. It is available from http://www.winehq.com/            
          faq.html.                                                    
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      32. Who maintains this FAQ? What's its history? How do I         
          submit additions?                                            
                                                                       
          Dave Gardner maintained it from 1995-1998. Douglas           
          Ridgway <ridgway@winehq.com>, the current maintainer,        
          took it over in 1999. Proposed new questions should be       
          sent to him.                                                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      33. What's the copyright on this FAQ? How may I use it?          
                                                                       
          The original Wine FAQ, which this FAQ was based on, was      
          copyright © 1995-1998 David Gardner. It may be               
          reproduced and modified under the same terms as Wine         
          itself.                                                      
                                                                       
          Capabilities                                                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      34. Which programs does Wine currently run?                      
                                                                       
          Please see the Apps database.                                
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      35. Are there programs which Wine will never be able to          
          run?                                                         
                                                                       
          Wine is designed to allow applications to run, and           
          implements an application programming interface. It is       
          not designed to interface directly with hardware, which      
          is the responsibility of the underlying operating            
          system. Wine does not in general allow using Windows         
          drivers under Unix. That said, Wine has been used to         
          support parallel devices, such as parallel port              
          scanners for which no Unix driver is available.              
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      36. Can I use Wine to access my Winmodem?                        
                                                                       
          No. These are usually cheap DAC/ADC boards that comes        
          with software that consumes some of the processing           
          power of your main CPU instead of letting the hardware       
          do its own job of decoding/encoding the acoustic             
          signals that carries data over the phone line. The           
          software drivers use VxDs to access the hardware, which      
          brings us to the previous question, above.                   
                                                                       
          See http://www.linmodems.org/ instead.                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      37. Will MS Windows programs typically run faster or slower      
          under UNIX and Wine than they do under DOS and MS            
          Windows? Will certain kinds of programs run slower or        
          faster?                                                      
                                                                       
          When work on Wine is completed, programs should              
          typically run at about the same speed under Wine as          
          they do under DOS and MS Windows. Currently, there are       
          debugging features built into each release, and this         
          slows down the execution of programs. However, these         
          debugging features will be removed for any                   
          post-development releases.                                   
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      38. Are there any advantages or disadvantages to running MS      
          Windows applications under Wine that I should be aware       
          of?                                                          
                                                                       
          As with OS/2, you will be running MS Windows programs        
          under a protected mode operating system, which brings        
          certain advantages (and some disadvantages).                 
                                                                       
          For instance, there will be crash protection. That is,       
          each MS Windows application running under Wine will be       
          running in its own X window and its own portion of           
          reserved memory. If one MS Windows application crashes,      
          it will not crash the other MS Windows or UNIX               
          applications that you may have running at the same           
          time.                                                        
                                                                       
          However, be aware that some applications are broken and      
          they access memory that they haven't properly (or at         
          all) allocated. Under OS/2 or Wine, they will crash.         
          Under MS Windows, they may work for a period of time,        
          but then eventually you will have to reboot the              
          machine.                                                     
                                                                       
          Also, MS Windows programs should run at about the same       
          speed under Wine as they do under MS Windows.                
                                                                       
          When Wine is finished, you will be able to run your          
          favorite MS Windows applications in a UNIX environment.      
          However, be aware that any application written for MS        
          Windows will run much less efficiently than its native       
          UNIX cousin. For Linux, there is a database of such          
          applications at the Linux Apps Page.                         
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      39. Will Wine support MS Windows networked applications          
          that use winsock.dll?                                        
                                                                       
          Yes, Wine does support such applications, more so the        
          16-bit than the 32-bit version of winsock. Working           
          applications include Agent (a Usenet newsreader), mIRC,      
          ws-FTP and Internet Explorer.                                
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      40. I'm a software developer who wants to use UNIX to            
          develop programs rather than DOS, but I need to write        
          DOS and MS Windows programs as well. Will I be able to       
          run my favorite DOS and/or MS Windows compilers under        
          Wine?                                                        
                                                                       
          Wine now supports DOS applications natively, which           
          means that you might be able to run command-line             
          utilities. Some have reported success in running (to         
          varying degrees of success) various C++ compilers, and       
          the Borland Dephi and Turbo Pascal for Windows               
          compilers. Others have reported success in running the       
          Borland C++ 5.0 command line compiler (bcc) as well as       
          some of the debugging tools in the MS SDK, but these         
          compilers' IDEs generally do not run yet.                    
                                                                       
          What You Need to Run Wine                                    
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      41. Under what hardware platform(s) and operating system(s)      
          will Wine run?                                               
                                                                       
          Wine is being developed specifically to run on the           
          Intel x86 class of CPUs under certain UNIXes that run        
          on the x86 platform. UNIXes currently being tested for       
          Wine compatibility include Linux, FreeBSD, and Solaris       
          x86. NetBSD, OpenBSD, Unixware, and SCO OpenServer 5         
          worked at one time, but Wine now requires kernel-level       
          threads which are not currently available (or                
          understood by the Wine team) in those platforms. The         
          Wine development team hopes to attract the interest of       
          other commercial UNIX and UNIX clone vendors as well.        
                                                                       
          There are side efforts underway to port Wine to the          
          Alpha, OS/2, and BeOS platforms. You can find out more       
          information about the OS/2 port at http://                   
          www.winehq.com/wine/documentation/wine_os2                   
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      42. What minimum CPU must I have in my computer to be able       
          to run Wine and MS Windows applications smoothly?            
                                                                       
          Wine won't run on any x86 CPU less than an 80386. It is      
          known to also work in the 80486 and Pentium CPUs.            
          Beyond that, the basic test is, if you can run X11 now,      
          you should be able to run Wine and MS Windows                
          applications under it. As always, the faster your CPU,       
          the better. Having a math coprocessor is unimportant.        
          However, having a graphics accelerated video card            
          supported by X will help greatly.                            
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      43. How much disk space will the Wine source code and            
          binaries take on my hard drive? What other software do       
          I need to have installed to compile and run Wine?            
                                                                       
          You need approximately 220 megabytes of free hard drive      
          space to store and compile the source code. Wine also        
          needs about 18 megs in your /tmp directory.                  
                                                                       
          Many development tools need to be installed in order to      
          compile Wine. A list of required packages for several        
          distributions is included in the README.                     
                                                                       
          To run Wine, you will need the following:                    
            + The compiled Wine binary                                 
            + A properly configured wine.conf file (or ~/.winerc       
              file)                                                    
            + An installed and working X Window system                 
            + Some MS Windows programs to test                         
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      44. How much RAM do I need to have on my UNIX system to be       
          able to run Wine and MS Windows applications smoothly?       
                                                                       
          If you can run X smoothly on your UNIX system now, you       
          should be able to run Wine and MS Windows applications       
          just fine too. A typical Wine workstation should             
          realistically have at least 16 megabytes of RAM and a        
          16 megabyte swap partition. More is better, of course.       
          You can run Wine with 8/8, but it is not recommended.        
          If you wish to be part of the development team and           
          program Wine itself, be aware that the new debugger is       
          rather memory intensive. Some have suggested that 64         
          megabytes is the minimum RAM needed for Wine                 
          development, although some are able to work (albeit          
          slowly) with 24 megabytes of physical RAM and lots of        
          swap space.                                                  
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      45. I have a Drivespaced, Doublespaced or Stackered DOS          
          partition. Can Wine run MS Windows binaries located in       
          such a partition?                                            
                                                                       
          Yes, but only if the operating system supports mounting      
          those types of drives.                                       
                                                                       
          There is a Linux filesystem driver called dmsdos that        
          will allow read/write access through Doublespaced and        
          Drivespace 1.0 drives. More specifically, it supports        
          mounting DOS 6.0 and 6.2 Doublespaced, DOS 6.22              
          Drivespaced, and Windows 95 Doublespaced compressed          
          partitions (read and write access works fine, but write      
          access is slow). It can be found at ftp://                   
          metalab.unc.edu/pub/Linux/system/filesystems/dosfs/.         
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      46. Do I need to have a DOS partition on my system to use        
          Wine? Does MS Windows need to be loaded into that            
          partition in order to run MS Windows programs under          
          Wine?                                                        
                                                                       
          Unlike Wabi, you do not need a licensed and installed        
          copy of DOS or MS Windows to install, configure and run      
          Wine. However, Wine has to be able to 'see' an MS            
          Windows binary if it is to run it.                           
                                                                       
          Some folks have successfully installed and run some          
          small programs in their UNIX filesystem without having       
          a DOS partition or MS Windows. However, not all              
          programs will work this way yet. Some applications'          
          installation programs want to distribute some of the         
          package's files into the /windows and /windows/system        
          directories in order to run, and unless these exist on       
          your UNIX filesystem, those programs will not install        
          correctly and probably will not run well, if at all.         
                                                                       
          If you have a DOS partition with MS Windows installed        
          in it, make sure that your UNIX system can 'see' this        
          partition (check your /etc/fstab file or mount the           
          partition manually) so that Wine can run the MS Windows      
          binaries located in the DOS partition.                       
                                                                       
          When it is finished, Wine will not require that you          
          have a DOS partition on your system at all, meaning          
          that you will not need to have MS Windows installed          
          either. Wine programmers will provide an application         
          setup program to allow you to install your MS Windows        
          programs straight from your distribution diskettes or        
          CDs onto your UNIX filesystem, or from within your UNIX      
          filesystem if you ftp an MS Windows program over the         
          Internet.                                                    
                                                                       
          To run without a DOS partition, you need to set a UNIX       
          path to be your drive C, and make sure that the /            
          windows and /windows/system directories point to some        
          place that actually exist. Here's an example, copied         
          from a machine which has no DOS partition but                
          successfully runs Wine                                       
              [Drive C]                                                
              Path=/var/lib/wine                                       
              Type=hd                                                  
              Label=MS-DOS                                             
              Filesystem=win95                                         
                                                                       
              [wine]                                                   
              Windows=c:\windows                                       
              System=c:\windows\system                                 
              Temp=e:\                                                 
              Path=c:\windows;c:\windows\system;c:                     
                                                                       
          In /var/lib/wine/windows, you will need to install a         
          win.ini config file that you might find on a typical MS      
          Windows 3.1 machine. The directory /var/lib/wine/            
          windows/system should exist, but doesn't need to             
          contain anything. However, to use MS DLLs, you can copy      
          them into that directory.                                    
                                                                       
          If you have DOS/MS Windows installed on your system,         
          you can mount that partition at bootup by modifying the      
          file /etc/fstab in your UNIX partition. If you edit          
          this file by hand, it should contain something similar       
          to the following                                             
          /dev/hda1 /dosc msdos uid=0,gid=100,umask=007 0 0            
                                                                       
          This will allow you to read and write to the DOS             
          partition without being root.                                
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      47. If Wine completely replaces MS Windows, will it              
          duplicate all of the functions of MS Windows?                
                                                                       
          Most of them, yes. However, some applications and            
          applets that come with MS Windows, such as File Manager      
          and Calculator, can be considered by some to be              
          redundant, since 32-bit UNIX programs that duplicate         
          these applets' functions already exist.                      
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      48. Will I be able to install MS Windows applications in         
          any flavor of a UNIX filesystem?                             
                                                                       
          Wine is written to be filesystem independent, so MS          
          Windows applications will install and run under any          
          filesystem supported by your brand of UNIX.                  
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      49. Will Wine run only under X, or can it run in character       
          mode?                                                        
                                                                       
          Most of Wine's development effort is geared against MS       
          Windows' GUI, but some limited support for character         
          mode has appeared, by setting GraphicsDriver=ttydrv in       
          wine.conf's [wine] section.                                  
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      50. Will Wine run under any X window manager? Does it            
          require a window manager at all?                             
                                                                       
          Wine is window manager independent, so the X window          
          manager you choose to run has no bearing on your             
          ability to run MS Windows programs under Wine. Wine          
          uses standard X libraries, so no additional ones are         
          needed. Wine has its own window management, which acts       
          like MS Windows. It can be turned off to use the native      
          window manager with the -managed command-line switch.        
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      51. Will 32-bit Windows 95/98 applications run under Wine?       
                                                                       
          Yes, 32-bit programs are now about as well supported as      
          16-bit programs.                                             
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      52. What about NT specific programs, which use NT-only           
          features?                                                    
                                                                       
          These are only poorly supported.                             
                                                                       
          How to Find, Install, Configure and Run Wine                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      53. Where can I get Wine?                                        
                                                                       
          Because of lags created by using mirror, word of this        
          newest release may reach you before the release is           
          actually available at the ftp sites listed here. The         
          sources are available from the following locations:          
            + ftp://metalab.unc.edu/pub/Linux/ALPHA/wine/              
              development/                                             
            + ftp://tsx-11.mit.edu/pub/linux/ALPHA/Wine/               
              development/                                             
            + ftp://ftp.infomagic.com/pub/mirrors/linux/sunsite/       
              ALPHA/wine/development/                                  
            + ftp://ftp.progsoc.uts.edu.au/pub/Wine/development/       
                                                                       
          It should also be available from any site that mirrors       
          tsx-11 or metalab (formerly sunsite).                        
                                                                       
          Some of these ftp sites may archive previous versions        
          of Wine as well as the current one. To determine which       
          is the latest one, look at the distribution filename,        
          which will take the form Wine-YYMMDD.tar.gz. Simply          
          replace YYMMDD in the distribution filename with the         
          numbers for year, month and date, respectively. The          
          latest one is the one to get.                                
                                                                       
          Wine binary packages are available for several OS'es         
          and distributions. See http://www.winehq.com/                
          download.html for the most recent list.                      
                                                                       
          Current Wine sources are also available via anonymous        
          client/server CVS. You will need CVS 1.9 or above. If        
          you are coming from behind a firewall, you will either       
          need a hole in the firewall for the CVS port (2401) or       
          use SOCKS. To login to the CVS tree, do                      
          export CVSROOT=:pserver:cvs@cvs.winehq.com:/home/wine        
          cvs login                                                    
                                                                       
          Use "cvs" as the password (without the quotes). Note         
          that /home/wine is a path on the server, not on your         
          machine.                                                     
                                                                       
          To check out the entire Wine source tree (which may be       
          slow), use                                                   
          cvs -z 3 checkout wine                                       
                                                                       
          or if you just want a subtree, or individual file, you       
          can do that too with                                         
          cvs -z 3 checkout wine/ANNOUNCE                              
                                                                       
          Be aware, though, that getting the entire Wine source        
          tree via CVS is pretty slow, especially compared to          
          getting Wine from an FTP mirror near you.                    
                                                                       
          Patch files are also available, so that you don't have       
          to download, install and configure the entire                
          distribution each week if you are current to the             
          previous release. Patch file release names follow the        
          same numbering convention as do the general releases,        
          and take the form                                            
                                                                       
          Wine-YYMMDD.diff.gz                                          
                                                                       
          Patch files are available from the same sites that           
          distribute the full release. To upgrade to a new             
          release by using a patch file, first cd to the               
          top-level directory of the release (the one containing       
          the README file), then do a "make clean", and patch the      
          release with                                                 
          gunzip -c patch-file | patch -p1                             
                                                                       
          where patch-file is the name of the patch file               
          something like Wine-YYMMDD.diff.gz. You can then re-run      
          ./configure, and then run make depend && make.                
                                                                       
          If you are mirroring the Wine distribution from the          
          tsx-11 site and wish to be listed here in this FAQ,          
          please send email to the FAQ author/maintainer at            
          webmaster@winehq.com                                         
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      54. If I do not have an Internet account, how can I get          
          Wine?                                                        
                                                                       
          Some CD-ROM archives of Internet sites, notably those        
          from Walnut Creek that archive ftp.cdrom.com and             
          metalab.unc.edu, may include some versions of Wine on        
          their CD releases. However, the age of these                 
          distributions should always be questioned, as the            
          'snapshot' of the ftp site may have been taken anywhere      
          from 1-4 months (or more) prior to the CD's pressing         
          date.                                                        
                                                                       
          Your best bet to get the very latest distribution of         
          Wine, if you do not have your own Internet account, is       
          to find a friend who does have an Internet account, and      
          have him/her ftp the necessary file(s) for you.              
          Unfortunately, since the Wine source no longer fits on       
          a 1.44 MB floppy, you'll have to figure out some way to      
          transfer the file to your computer.                          
                                                                       
          If you have an email account on a BBS that can reach         
          the Internet through a gateway, you may be able to use       
          'email ftp' to get the Wine release sent to you; check       
          with your BBS system operator for details.                   
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      55. How do I install Wine on my hard drive?                      
                                                                       
          Just un-gzip and un-tar the file, and follow the             
          instructions contained in the README file that will be       
          located in the base Wine directory.                          
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      56. How do I compile the Wine distribution source code?          
                                                                       
          See the README for instructions. Additionally, you may       
          want to set the TMPDIR environment variable TMPDIR=~/        
          tmp or TMPDIR=/tmp (if you are root)                         
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      57. How do I configure Wine to run on my system?                 
                                                                       
          Wine requires that you have a file called usr/local/etc      
          /wine.conf (you can supply a different filename when         
          configuring wine) or a file called .winerc in your home      
          directory. The format of this file is explained in the       
          wine.conf man page . The file wine.ini contains a            
          config file example. More explicit directions can be         
          found in the README file that will be located in the         
          base Wine directory after you ungzip and untar the           
          distribution file.                                           
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      58. How do I run an MS Windows program under Wine?               
                                                                       
          When invoking Wine, you must specify the entire path to      
          the executable, or by filename only.                         
                                                                       
          For example to run Windows' solitaire, type any of the       
          following:                                                   
            + wine sol or wine sol.exe (using the search path to       
              locate the file)                                         
            + wine c:\\windows\\sol.exe (using a DOS filename)         
            + wine /usr/windows/sol.exe (using a UNIX filename)        
                                                                       
          The path of the file will also be added to the path          
          when a full name is supplied on the command line.            
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      59. I have installed and configured Wine, but Wine cannot        
          find MS Windows on my drive. Where did I go wrong?           
                                                                       
          If you have a DOS partition, first make sure that you        
          have mounted it, either by putting the entry into [tt /      
          etc/fstab], or by manually mounting it. Remember too         
          that unless your version of UNIX can see through it, or      
          you are running a utility that can see through it, your      
          DOS partition must not be located on a Drivespaced,          
          Doublespaced or Stackered partition, as neither Linux,       
          FreeBSD, NetBSD or Wine can natively 'see' files             
          located in these compressed DOS partitions.                  
                                                                       
          Check your path statements in the wine.conf file. No         
          capital letters may be used in paths, as they are            
          automatically converted to lowercase.                        
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      60. I'm running a DirectX game, but the graphics is slow,        
          how can I speed it up?                                       
                                                                       
          If you're using XFree86, you can take advantage of DGA.      
          You must have rw access to /dev/mem to do this. On many      
          distributions, you can add yourself to the kmem group.       
          Otherwise, you have to change /dev/mem permissions, or       
          even play as root.                                           
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      61. I think I've found a bug. How do I report this bug to        
          the Wine programming team?                                   
                                                                       
          Bug reports should be posted to the newsgroup                
          comp.emulators.ms-windows.wine. See documentation/           
          bugreports for a list of what to include. This means at      
          least the following:                                         
            + The Wine version tested                                  
            + The MS Windows program name and, if possible, the        
              version number of the software tested                    
            + A brief description of the bug                           
            + The relevant part(s) of the output of the Wine           
              debugger                                                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      62. I was able to get various MS Windows programs to run,        
          but parts of them do not work. What is wrong?                
                                                                       
          Wine is not complete at this time, so some of each           
          programs' features may not work. They will in time as        
          more of the MS Windows API calls are included in Wine.       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      63. I have run various MS Windows programs, but since the        
          program menus do not work, how can I exit these              
          programs?                                                    
                                                                       
          Kill the xterm shell window that you called up to run        
          your MS Windows program, and the X window that appeared      
          with the program will be killed too.                         
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      64. How do I remove Wine from my computer?                       
                                                                       
          All you have to do is to type                                
          rm -fR \[/path/\]Wine*                                       
                                                                       
          Make sure that you specify the exact path when using         
          the powerful 'rm -fR' command. If you are afraid that        
          you might delete something important, or might               
          otherwise delete other files within your filesystem, cd      
          into each Wine subdirectory singly and delete the files      
          found there manually, one file or directory at a time.       
          Neither the Wine developers and programmers, nor the         
          Wine FAQ author/maintainer, can be held responsible for      
          your deleting any files in your own filesystem.              
                                                                       
          How to Get Help with Wine                                    
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      65. Is there a Usenet newsgroup for Wine?                        
                                                                       
          Yes, and it's called comp.emulators.ms-windows.wine.         
          The newsgroup serves as a place for developers to            
          discuss Wine, and for minor announcements for the            
          general public. Major announcements will be crossposted      
          to other appropriate newsgroups, such as the following       
          comp.os.linux.announce comp.windows.x.announce               
          comp.emulators.announce If your Usenet site does not         
          carry these newsgroups, please urge your ISP's sysadmin      
          and/or uplink to add them.                                   
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      66. Is there a World Wide Web site for Wine?                     
                                                                       
          Here are a few                                               
            + WineHQ The official site.                                
            + http://www.qbc.clic.net/~krynos/wine_en.html             
                                                                       
          If you are installing or maintain a WWW page pertaining      
          to Wine that you feel would be useful for others to          
          read, please inform the FAQ author/maintainer at             
          webmaster@winehq.com.                                        
                                                                       
          How You Can Help with the Wine Project                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      67. How can I help contribute to the Wine project, and in        
          what way(s)?                                                 
                                                                       
          You can contribute programming skills, or monetary or        
          equipment donations, to aid the Wine developers in           
          reaching their goals. To find out who, what, where,          
          when and why, please post your desire to contribute to       
          the newsgroup comp.emulators.ms-windows.wine                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      68. I want to help beta test Wine. How can I do this?            
                                                                       
          Beta testers are currently not needed, as Wine is still      
          Alpha code at this time. However, anyone is welcome to       
          download the latest version and try it out at any time.      
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      69. I have written some code that I would like to submit to      
          the Wine project. How do I go about doing this?              
                                                                       
          Patches are greatly appreciated and should be submitted      
          to the wine-patches mailing list. Also see this page         
          for a description of what happens to submitted patches.      
                                                                       
          Who's Responsible for Wine?                                  
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      70. Who is responsible for writing and maintaining the Wine      
          source code?                                                 
                                                                       
          Wine is available thanks to the work of many people.         
          Please see the file AUTHORS in the distribution for the      
          complete list.                                               
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
      71. Who are the folks and organizations who have                 
          contributed money or equipment to the Wine project?          
                                                                       
          People and organizations who have given generous             
          contributions of money, equipment, or licenses, include      
            + David L. Harper                                          
            + Bob Hepple                                               
            + Mark A. Horton                                           
            + Kevin P. Lawton                                          
            + the Syntropy Institute                                   
            + James Woulfe                                             
            + vmWare Inc.                                              
            + Corel                                                    
                                                                       
