Version 1.0 OpenSource Metadata Framework (OMF) Specification

This document describes the OpenSource Metadata Framework (OMF) specification.  Based on the
Dublin Core recommendation Version 1.1 (http://purl.oclc.org/DC/) OMF aims 
to provide a framework for resource discovery and use, and is tailored to the 
needs of the opensource documentation community. 


The specification was initiated by the following members of the opensource research
team at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill:  Jane Greenberg, Miles
Efron, Paul Jones, Matt Knuppel.  Substantive contributions have been made by 
Kendall Clark and Ismael Olea. 

The specification presented here is being implemented by means of an RDF-
compliant XML DTD written by Kendall Clark, a draft of which is available 
at http://casbah.org/cgi-bin/cvsweb.cgi/XML/DTDs/OMF/ 


OpenSource Metadata Framework Element Description 

1.	Author or Creator
	Label: CREATOR
	Obligation: Mandatory
	Maximum Occurrence : Repeatable
The person or organization primarily responsible for creating the
intellectual content of the resource. CREATOR should appear in RFC822
format (http://info.internet.isi.edu:80/in-notes/rfc/files/rfc822.txt).
Preferred format: mailname@site.domain.top (Full Name)

2.	Current Maintainer
	Label: MAINTAINER
	Obligation: Optional
	Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
The person or organization responsible for publishing the resource in its
current form.  If left blank, this value defaults to CREATOR. (RFC822 format) 

3.	Other Contributor
	Label: CONTRIBUTOR
	Obligation: Optional
	Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
A person or organization not specified in a CREATOR or MAINTAINER element
who has made significant intellectual contributions to the resource but
whose contribution is secondary to any person or organization specified in
a CREATOR or MAINTAINER element.  (RFC822 format)

4.	Title
	Label: TITLE
	Obligation: Mandatory
	Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable 
The name given to the resource by the CREATOR or MAINTAINER.

5.	Date
	Label: DATE
	Obligation: Mandatory
	Maximum Occurrence: Not Repeatable
The date on which the resource was made available in its current form.
(Recommended best practice is an 8 digit number in the form YYYY-MM-DD
as defined in http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime, a profile of ISO 8601. In
this scheme, the date element 1994-11-05 corresponds to November 5, 1994.)

6.	Label: VERSION
	Obligation:
        	VERSION.identifier (Optional)
		VERSION.date (Optional)
        	VERSION.description (Optional)
	Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
VERSION is a multifaceted element, consisting of three attributes.
VERSION.identifier consists of a string or number that distinguishes the 
current revision of the resource from other revisions.  VERSION.date records 
the date the resource was made available in the form specified by
VERSION.identifier.  (Recommended best practice is an 8 digit number in the
form YYYY-MM-DD as defined in http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime, a profile 
of ISO 8601. In this scheme, the date element 1994-11-05 corresponds to
to November 5, 1994.)  VERSION.description summarizes revisions that 
distinguish VERSION.identifer from other versions of the resource.  Repeated 
instances of VERSION comprise the revision history of a resource. 

7.	Subject and Keywords
	Label: SUBJECT
        Obligation: Optional 
        Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
The topic of the resource. Typically, this element employs keywords that
summarize the subject or content of the resource.
 

8.	Description
	Label: DESCRIPTION
        Obligation: Optional 
        Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
A textual description of the content of the resource (e.g., an abstract, 
contents note).

9.	Resource Type
	Label: TYPE
        Obligation: Optional 
        Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
The category of the resource.  To promote consistency, TYPE
should be selected from the following list: 
	HOWTO
	mini-HOWTO
	user's guide
	administrator's guide
	programmer's guide
	installation guide

10.	Format
	Label: FORMAT
        Obligation: Optional 
        Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
Details about the implementation of the resource.  FORMAT accomodates two
attributes:
	FORMAT.DTD
	FORMAT.MIME
FORMAT.DTD describes the document type definition used in the resource (if
any).  FORMAT.MIME should be expressed as a MIME type, as defined in RFC 
2046 (http://info.internet.isi.edu:80/in-notes/rfc/files/rfc2046.txt).
e.g.:  type/subtype.  

11.	Resource Identifier
	Label: IDENTIFIER
        Obligation: Optional 
        Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
A specification of a unique ID by which the resource may be
identified and from which the resource may be retrieved. Entries for
this field should contain a valid URL which returns the resource in
question. For example:
          http://www.ldp.org/docs/howto/nfs

12.	Source
	Label: SOURCE
        Obligation: Optional 
        Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
A specification of any previous or alternative publication of the
resource in its current form (e.g. a larger work from which the resource is 
extracted, such as a chapter taken from a book).  SOURCE may include a URL, 
ISBN or similar device. 

13.	Language
	Label: LANGUAGE
        Obligation: Optional 
        Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
Language(s) of the intellectual content of the resource. Where practical,
the content of this field should coincide with RFC 1766. See:
http://ds.internic.net/rfc/rfc1766.txt 

14.	Relation
	Label: RELATION
        Obligation: Optional 
        Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
A URL that points to the IDENTIFIER element of another resource.  Each
instance of RELATION links the resource to other resources of similar
domain or style.

15.	Coverage
	Label: COVERAGE
        Obligation: Optional
		COVERAGE.geographic (Optional)	
		COVERAGE.distribution (Optional)	
		COVERAGE.kernel (Optional)		
		COVERAGE.architecture (Optional)	
		COVERAGE.os (Optional)		
        Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
A multifaceted description of the resource's intellectual scope that consists 
of five attributes. COVERAGE.geographic identifies regional specificity of the 
resource.  Where practical COVERAGE.geographic should be expressed as an ISO 
3166-compliant string of two characters 
(See http://www.w3.org/International/O-misc-iso3166.html). COVERAGE.distribution
identifies a Linux distribution explicitly specified in the resource.  
COVERAGE.kernel identifies the kernel version treated in the resource.  
COVERAGE.architecture identifies hardware described in the resource.  
COVERAGE.os identifies an operating system explicitly specified in the resource.


16.	Rights Management
	Label: RIGHTS
      Obligation: Optional 
	RIGHTS.type (Optional) 		
	RIGHTS.license (Optional)		
	RIGHTS.license.version (Optional)	 
	RIGHTS.holder (Optional)		
	Maximum Occurrence: Repeatable
An indication of the copying policy under which the resource is distributed.  
Four attributes comprise the RIGHTS element.  RIGHTS.type identifies the name 
of the resource's distribution license.  To promote consistency, RIGHTS.type 
should be selected from the following list:  GNU GPL, GNU LGPL, BSD, X 
Consortium, Artistic, MPL, QPL, IBMPL, ASPL, libpng, zlib, IJG JPEG, OPL, ORL.
RIGHTS.license identifies the URL for the license referenced in RIGHTS.type.  
RIGHTS.license.version identifies the version number of the resource's license.
RIGHTS.holder identifies the person or organization who holds the rights for 
the resource described in RIGHTS.license.

